DIY ngrok/pagekite for Android app testing #324 (#345)
medic/cht-docs: content/en/apps/guides/debugging/secure-sharing-of-developer-instance.md

Never expose a development instance to the internet where you've replicated production data locally. Well, maybe not never, but with extreme care and intention.
{{% /alert %}}

## Overview
When using a local [development environment](https://github.com/medic/cht-core/blob/master/DEVELOPMENT.md), you may want to share your work with other collaborators. You also may need to access the environment from your [mobile device](https://github.com/medic/medic-android/) which requires an SSL certificate (the "s" in "https"). By using a publicly accessible web server, you can receive the secure https requests and forward them back to your CHT instance which doesn't have https set up:

[<img src="/apps/guides/debugging/images/SSH.tunnel.diagram.svg" width=100% height=100%>](/apps/guides/debugging/images/SSH.tunnel.diagram.svg)

> Once you have this web server set up, you many continue to use when ever you want by simply reconnecting to it via the secure tunnel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have this web server set up, you may continue to use it whenever you want by simply reconnecting to it via the secure tunnel.
```

Reviewer 2: @mrjones-plip here's the the [editable version](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1j4jPsi-gHbiaLBfgYOyru1g_YV98PkBrx2zs7bwhoEQ/edit#slide=id.p) of the diagram Marc linked to in case it's useful; I can also take a stab at it if you prefer!

[<img src="/apps/guides/debugging/images/SSH.tunnel.diagram.svg" width=100% height=100%>](/apps/guides/debugging/images/SSH.tunnel.diagram.svg)

Once you have this web server set up, you may continue to use it whenever you want by simply reconnecting to it via the secure tunnel.

## Prerequisites 

> This guide assume:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide assumes:
```

* You have a local [dev instance](https://github.com/medic/cht-core/blob/master/DEVELOPMENT.md) set up of cht-core 

> * You  have the [generic Medic Mobile app](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.medicmobile.webapp.mobile&hl=en_US) installed on your android device. This version allows you to enter a custom CHT URL on first run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You  have the [generic Medic Mobile app](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.medicmobile.webapp.mobile&hl=en_US) installed on your Android device. This version allows you to enter a custom CHT URL on first run.
```

* You have an Ubuntu >18.04 server with a public IP and a DNS entry that you can SSH into and have sudo on

> * You have apache >2.4.29 installed on the Ubuntu server and can add a new vhost to it, including an SSL cert. (nginx could be used instead as well, but not covered here)

Reviewer: Uppercase?
```suggestion
* You have Apache >2.4.29 installed on the Ubuntu server and can add a new vhost to it, including an SSL cert. (nginx could be used instead as well, but not covered here)
```

Author: Yes!

* You have certbot installed from letsencrypt.org

> For reference, any of the cheap servers out there (Digital Ocean has a $5/mo server https://digitalocean.com/) will enable you to do this. 

Reviewer: Worth changing the "enable you to do this" part as I am not sure what this references.

Author: should be fixed in 9cc010c

## Prerequisites 

This guide assumes:
* You have a local [dev instance](https://github.com/medic/cht-core/blob/master/DEVELOPMENT.md) set up of cht-core 
* You  have the [generic Medic Mobile app](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.medicmobile.webapp.mobile&hl=en_US) installed on your Android device. This version allows you to enter a custom CHT URL on first run.
* You have an Ubuntu >18.04 server with a public IP and a DNS entry that you can SSH into and have sudo on
* You have Apache >2.4.29 installed on the Ubuntu server and can add a new vhost to it, including an SSL cert. (nginx could be used instead as well, but not covered here)
* You have certbot installed from letsencrypt.org

> The steps in this guide can be done on any of the cheap server providers out there (Digital Ocean has a $5/mo server https://digitalocean.com/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The steps in this guide can be done on any of the cheap server providers out there ([Digital Ocean](https://digitalocean.com) has a $5/mo server).
```
